README.md, before:

This layer depends on:

    URI: git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git
    branch: jethro 
    revision: HEAD
    commit: b1f23d1

    meta-ubmc layer maintainer: Steve Beaver <sbeaver@netgate.com>

Major Software Versions

* Yocto 2.0.1 [jethro] branch
* Linux kernel 4.4.3 (linux-stable)
* U-Boot 2016.01

## Building Linux for the uBMC

The uBMC Linux kernel and root file system are produced by the Yocto project build system. https://www.yoctoproject.org/ along with a custom uBMC Board Support Package (BSP) layer named meta-ubmc

If you follow the instructions that follow carefully, it should be possible to create a complete working system from a single shell command.
Preparing the build system

On a Linux system (Ubuntu, CentOS, Fedora or Debian are recommended) ensure that the followinf packages are installed:

    bc
    build-essential
    chrpath
    diffstat
    gawk
    git
    libncurses5-dev
    pkg-config
    subversion
    texi2html
    texinfo
    u-boot-tools

### Downloading the build environment and layers

From your home directory, create a ubmc and a build directory:

  ~/$ mkdir -p ubmc/build

If you are using Ubuntu, change teh default shell to Bash by typing "sudo dpkg-reconfigure dash" and selecting "No" from the menu displayed.

From your home directory obtain and install a copy of the Yocto build system and some required layers:

    ~/$ git clone -b jethro git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git poky-jethro
    ~/$ cd poky-jethro
    ~/poky-jeth$ git clone -b jethro git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded
    ~/poky-jetho$ git clone -b jethro https://github.com/meta-qt5/meta-qt5.git

Change directories to your ~/ubmcdirectory, and git clone THIS PROJECT (git.pfmechanics.com/netgate/meta-ubmc)

Unpack it using tar xvzf meta-ubmc.tar.gz You should now have a directory structure like this:

  Home
     |
     |--ubmc
     |   |
     |   --build
     |   --meta-ubmc
     |
     |--poky-jethro


### Preparing the build system

Prepare the build system by using the Yocto scripts to set up your directory tree and environment variables. From your home directory:

    ~/$ source poky-jethro/oe-init-build-env ~/ubmc/build

Now we need to copy some sample configuration files from the ubmc layer. From the ~/ubmc directory:

    ~/ubmc$ cp meta-ubmc/conf/local.conf-sample build/conf/local.conf
    ~/ubmc$ cp meta-ubmc/conf/bblayers.conf-sample build/conf/bblayers.conf

If you have used the directory names specified in this document, it will not be necessary to edit these files. Now we need to set up the environment for Yocto using another script. From your home directory: ~/$ source poky-jethro/oe-init-build-env ~/ubmc/build
Building the build

Now that everything is set up, actually building the code is pretty simple. From your ~/ubmc/build direcory, simply type the Yocto bitbake command:

    ~/ubmc/build$ bitbake console-image

and go find something else to do. The system has to download the source code and tools for an entire operating system, build the cross tools, unpack and build several hundred packages and then build a root file system from those. Expect it to take at least 90 minutes the first time you run it. Once the system has been built once, it should only take a few minutes to re-build it after any changes.
Deploying the resulting images to a uBMC

The output of the Yocto build system is a compressed root file system which is to be found here:

    ~/ubmc/build/tmp/deployimages/beaglebone/console-image-beaglebone-<date-time>.rootfs.tar.xz

Copy this file to the uBMC eMMC memory (see below), un-tar it then remove the archive Your system should b=now be ready to run.


### Preparing the uBMC

Assuming you have installed U-Boot as explained at the top of this Wiki page, you now need to install a temporary copy of Linux with which to prepare the eMMC and install your Yocto build. All of the files needed to do this can be found at: smb://172.27.32.4/sbeaver/ubmc-files

Prepate a USB "thumb"drive by creating single partition and an ext2 files system on it. Download the files zImage, am335x-ubmc.dtb, rootfa.tar.gz and ramdisk.gz from smb://172.27.32.4/sbeaver/ubmc-files/Linux to the newly formatted USB drive.

Remove the drive from your host computer and connect it to the uBMC. Now from the U-Boot prompt:

    usb start
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x82000000 /zImage
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x88000000 /am335x-ubmc.dtb
    ext2load usb 0:2 0x84000000 /ramdisk.gz
    setenv bootargs "console=ttyO0,115200n8 root=/dev/ram0 rw initrd=0x84000000,32M ramdisk_size=32768"
    bootz 0x82000000 - 0x88000000
  

If you have done everything correctly, the uBMC should now boot Linux and you should be at the shell prompt. Now we need to prepare the eMMC memory and install our Yocto operating system: Run fdisk on device /dev/mmcblk0 and create one new primary partition, accepting the defaults (entire disk) Reboot

Noe we need to start our temporary USB Linux again:

    usb start
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x82000000 /zImage
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x88000000 /am335x-ubmc.dtb
    ext2load usb 0:2 0x84000000 /ramdisk.gz
    setenv bootargs "console=ttyO0,115200n8 root=/dev/ram0 rw initrd=0x84000000,32M ramdisk_size=32768"
    bootz 0x82000000 - 0x88000000

Now the eMMC partition should be visible as /dev/mmcblk0p1 We need to format that as an ext2 file system

    mkfs.ext2 /dev/mmcblk0p1

Now we can install Yocto system:

    mkdir -p /mnt/memstick
    mkdir /mnt/mmc
    mount -t ext2 /dev/mmcblk0p1 /mnt/mmc
    mount -t ext2 /dev/sda1 /mnt/memstick
    cd /mnt/mmc
    cp /mnt/memstick/rootfs.tar.gz .
    tar xvzf rootfs.tar.gz

Reboot to the U-Boot prompt and we can attempt to boot from our new Yocto system

    setenv bootargs console=ttyO0,115200,n8 root=/dev/mmcblk0p1 rw
    ml=ext2load mmc 0:1 0x82000000 /boot/zImage
    ext2load mmc 0:1 0x88000000 /boot/am335x-ubmc.dtb
    bootz 0x82000000 - 0x88000000

The uBMC should now boot from the Yocto image you previously installed. If you want it to do so automatically, reboot and re-enter the above commands as part of the U-Boot "bootcmd" variable.

    Sending discover...
    Sending select for 172.21.2.41...
    Lease of 172.21.2.41 obtained, lease time 7200
    /etc/udhcpc.d/50default: Adding DNS 172.21.2.1
    done.
    Starting system message bus: dbus.
    random: nonblocking pool is initialized
    Starting OpenBSD Secure Shell server: sshd
    done.
    Starting ntpd: done
    Starting syslogd/klogd: done

    Poky (Yocto Project uBMC) 2.0.1 micro-BMC


                _                      ____  __  __  _____
               (_)                    |  _ \|  \/  |/ ____|
      _ __ ___  _  ___ _ __ ___ ______| |_) | \  / | |
     |  _   _ \| |/ __| __/  _  \_____|  _ <| |\/| | |
     | | | | | | | (__| | | (_) |     | |_) | |  | | |____
     |_| |_| |_|_|\___|_|  \___/      |____/|_|  |_|\_____|
    
    
    micro-BMC login:

Commit message:

Revised README file to acknowledge Jumpnow work that was used as a foundation for this layer

README.md, after:

This layer depends on:

    URI: git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git
    branch: jethro 
    revision: HEAD
    commit: b1f23d1

    meta-ubmc layer maintainer: Steve Beaver <sbeaver@netgate.com>

This layer was created using the Beaglebone-black layer developed by Jumpnow Technologies LLC as a reference. http://www.jumpnowtek.com/

Major Software Versions

* Yocto 2.0.1 [jethro] branch
* Linux kernel 4.4.3 (linux-stable)
* U-Boot 2016.01

## Building Linux for the uBMC

The uBMC Linux kernel and root file system are produced by the Yocto project build system. https://www.yoctoproject.org/ along with a custom uBMC Board Support Package (BSP) layer named meta-ubmc

If you follow the instructions that follow carefully, it should be possible to create a complete working system from a single shell command.
Preparing the build system

On a Linux system (Ubuntu, CentOS, Fedora or Debian are recommended) ensure that the followinf packages are installed:

    bc
    build-essential
    chrpath
    diffstat
    gawk
    git
    libncurses5-dev
    pkg-config
    subversion
    texi2html
    texinfo
    u-boot-tools

### Downloading the build environment and layers

From your home directory, create a ubmc and a build directory:

  ~/$ mkdir -p ubmc/build

If you are using Ubuntu, change teh default shell to Bash by typing "sudo dpkg-reconfigure dash" and selecting "No" from the menu displayed.

From your home directory obtain and install a copy of the Yocto build system and some required layers:

    ~/$ git clone -b jethro git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git poky-jethro
    ~/$ cd poky-jethro
    ~/poky-jeth$ git clone -b jethro git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded
    ~/poky-jetho$ git clone -b jethro https://github.com/meta-qt5/meta-qt5.git

Change directories to your ~/ubmcdirectory, and git clone THIS PROJECT (git.pfmechanics.com/netgate/meta-ubmc)

Unpack it using tar xvzf meta-ubmc.tar.gz You should now have a directory structure like this:

  Home
     |
     |--ubmc
     |   |
     |   --build
     |   --meta-ubmc
     |
     |--poky-jethro


### Preparing the build system

Prepare the build system by using the Yocto scripts to set up your directory tree and environment variables. From your home directory:

    ~/$ source poky-jethro/oe-init-build-env ~/ubmc/build

Now we need to copy some sample configuration files from the ubmc layer. From the ~/ubmc directory:

    ~/ubmc$ cp meta-ubmc/conf/local.conf-sample build/conf/local.conf
    ~/ubmc$ cp meta-ubmc/conf/bblayers.conf-sample build/conf/bblayers.conf

If you have used the directory names specified in this document, it will not be necessary to edit these files. Now we need to set up the environment for Yocto using another script. From your home directory: ~/$ source poky-jethro/oe-init-build-env ~/ubmc/build
Building the build

Now that everything is set up, actually building the code is pretty simple. From your ~/ubmc/build direcory, simply type the Yocto bitbake command:

    ~/ubmc/build$ bitbake console-image

and go find something else to do. The system has to download the source code and tools for an entire operating system, build the cross tools, unpack and build several hundred packages and then build a root file system from those. Expect it to take at least 90 minutes the first time you run it. Once the system has been built once, it should only take a few minutes to re-build it after any changes.
Deploying the resulting images to a uBMC

The output of the Yocto build system is a compressed root file system which is to be found here:

    ~/ubmc/build/tmp/deployimages/beaglebone/console-image-beaglebone-<date-time>.rootfs.tar.xz

Copy this file to the uBMC eMMC memory (see below), un-tar it then remove the archive Your system should b=now be ready to run.


### Preparing the uBMC

Assuming you have installed U-Boot as explained at the top of this Wiki page, you now need to install a temporary copy of Linux with which to prepare the eMMC and install your Yocto build. All of the files needed to do this can be found at: smb://172.27.32.4/sbeaver/ubmc-files

Prepate a USB "thumb"drive by creating single partition and an ext2 files system on it. Download the files zImage, am335x-ubmc.dtb, rootfa.tar.gz and ramdisk.gz from smb://172.27.32.4/sbeaver/ubmc-files/Linux to the newly formatted USB drive.

Remove the drive from your host computer and connect it to the uBMC. Now from the U-Boot prompt:

    usb start
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x82000000 /zImage
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x88000000 /am335x-ubmc.dtb
    ext2load usb 0:2 0x84000000 /ramdisk.gz
    setenv bootargs "console=ttyO0,115200n8 root=/dev/ram0 rw initrd=0x84000000,32M ramdisk_size=32768"
    bootz 0x82000000 - 0x88000000
  

If you have done everything correctly, the uBMC should now boot Linux and you should be at the shell prompt. Now we need to prepare the eMMC memory and install our Yocto operating system: Run fdisk on device /dev/mmcblk0 and create one new primary partition, accepting the defaults (entire disk) Reboot

Noe we need to start our temporary USB Linux again:

    usb start
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x82000000 /zImage
    ext2load usb 0:1 0x88000000 /am335x-ubmc.dtb
    ext2load usb 0:2 0x84000000 /ramdisk.gz
    setenv bootargs "console=ttyO0,115200n8 root=/dev/ram0 rw initrd=0x84000000,32M ramdisk_size=32768"
    bootz 0x82000000 - 0x88000000

Now the eMMC partition should be visible as /dev/mmcblk0p1 We need to format that as an ext2 file system

    mkfs.ext2 /dev/mmcblk0p1

Now we can install Yocto system:

    mkdir -p /mnt/memstick
    mkdir /mnt/mmc
    mount -t ext2 /dev/mmcblk0p1 /mnt/mmc
    mount -t ext2 /dev/sda1 /mnt/memstick
    cd /mnt/mmc
    cp /mnt/memstick/rootfs.tar.gz .
    tar xvzf rootfs.tar.gz

Reboot to the U-Boot prompt and we can attempt to boot from our new Yocto system

    setenv bootargs console=ttyO0,115200,n8 root=/dev/mmcblk0p1 rw
    ml=ext2load mmc 0:1 0x82000000 /boot/zImage
    ext2load mmc 0:1 0x88000000 /boot/am335x-ubmc.dtb
    bootz 0x82000000 - 0x88000000

The uBMC should now boot from the Yocto image you previously installed. If you want it to do so automatically, reboot and re-enter the above commands as part of the U-Boot "bootcmd" variable.

    Sending discover...
    Sending select for 172.21.2.41...
    Lease of 172.21.2.41 obtained, lease time 7200
    /etc/udhcpc.d/50default: Adding DNS 172.21.2.1
    done.
    Starting system message bus: dbus.
    random: nonblocking pool is initialized
    Starting OpenBSD Secure Shell server: sshd
    done.
    Starting ntpd: done
    Starting syslogd/klogd: done

    Poky (Yocto Project uBMC) 2.0.1 micro-BMC


                _                      ____  __  __  _____
               (_)                    |  _ \|  \/  |/ ____|
      _ __ ___  _  ___ _ __ ___ ______| |_) | \  / | |
     |  _   _ \| |/ __| __/  _  \_____|  _ <| |\/| | |
     | | | | | | | (__| | | (_) |     | |_) | |  | | |____
     |_| |_| |_|_|\___|_|  \___/      |____/|_|  |_|\_____|
    
    
    micro-BMC login:
